[error-tracking] Issue Team Ownership documentation (#27841)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/error_tracking/issue_team_ownership.md

further_reading:
- link: '/error_tracking/suspect_commits/'
  tag: 'Documentation'
  text: 'Suspect Commits'
- link: '/error_tracking/suspected_causes/'
  tag: 'Documentation'
  text: 'Suspected Causes'
---

## Overview

Issue Team Ownership automates your triaging work by assigning issues to the right teams. Your team owns an issue if it is either:
- code owner of the top level stack-frame of the issue according to GitHub `CODEOWNERS`.
- owner of the service where the issue happens.

***Note**: Stack frames linking to third-party files are not taken into account. Only the top level stack frame related to a file present in your repository is considered.*

## Leverage team ownership

Team ownership information appears on the issue details panel when available:

{{< img src="error_tracking/ownership-details.png" alt="Team ownership information on issue details" style="width:80%;" >}}

You can also use issue team ownership to filter issues by teams in the Error Tracking Explorer.

{{< img src="error_tracking/ownership-sidebar.png" alt="Team ownership information on sidebar" style="width:80%;" >}}

## Setup

### Configure Source Code Integration

> Ensure [Source Code Integration][1] is setup and install [the GitHub integration][2]. Make sure all requested permissions are granted for the GitHub integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Ensure [Source Code Integration][1] is set up.
2. Install [the GitHub integration][2]. 
3. Make sure all requested permissions are granted for the GitHub integration.
```
Agree with the other comment--it would be great to list the required permissions here.

---
title: Issue Team Ownership
description: Automatically assign issues to teams based on Git CODEOWNERS files.
further_reading:
- link: '/error_tracking/auto_assign/'
  tag: 'Documentation'
  text: 'Auto Assign'
- link: '/error_tracking/suspected_causes/'
  tag: 'Documentation'
  text: 'Suspected Causes'
---

## Overview

> Issue Team Ownership automatically assigns issues to teams by linking error stack traces to Git `CODEOWNERS` files. This feature streamlines issue resolution by connecting errors to the appropriate teams based on code ownership, making it easier to identify which team should handle specific problems.

Author: Fixed this

When an issue occurs, Error Tracking analyzes the stack trace and matches it against your repository's `CODEOWNERS` file to determine which team owns the affected code. The issue is then automatically assigned to the corresponding Datadog team.

## Setup

> Issue Team Ownership requires Source Code Integration and a properly configured `CODEOWNERS` file. Follow these steps to enable the feature:

Author: If GitHub shows `This CODEOWNERS file is valid.`, we should be able to parse it. HOWEVER, that's not always the case, but that's an issue on our end. The lib we use fail on illegal lines, but it should skip. I'll check if we can do something about it.

***Note**: Issue Team Ownership currently supports GitHub only.*

### Configure Source Code Integration

- Ensure [Source Code Integration][1] is enabled and setup.
- Install [the GitHub integration][2]. Make sure all requested permission is granted for the GitHub integration.

### Set up CODEOWNERS file

Place a valid `CODEOWNERS` file in one of the following locations in your repository:

- `.github/CODEOWNERS`
- `CODEOWNERS` (root directory)
- `docs/CODEOWNERS`

The `CODEOWNERS` file defines ownership of files and directories in your codebase using [GitHub's CODEOWNERS format][3].

### Link GitHub teams to Datadog teams

1. In Datadog, navigate to **Teams**.
2. Select your team and go to **Settings**.
3. Click **GitHub Connection**.
4. Map your Datadog teams to the corresponding GitHub teams defined in your `CODEOWNERS` file.

{{< img src="error_tracking/team-github-connection.jpg" alt="Linking GitHub teams to Datadog teams" style="width:80%;" >}}

> Once configured, issues are automatically attributed to the relevant teams based on stack traces and the `CODEOWNERS` file.

Author: fixed

## Configuration

Issue Team Ownership is enabled by default for all services once the setup requirements are met. You can control this feature at both global and service levels through the Error Tracking settings page.

{{< img src="error_tracking/ownership-config.png" alt="Issue Team Ownership configuration settings" style="width:100%;" >}}

## Leverage team ownership

Team ownership information appears on the issue details panel when available:

{{< img src="error_tracking/ownership-details.png" alt="Team ownership information on issue details" style="width:90%;" >}}

You can also use issue team ownership to filter issues by teams in the Error Tracking Explorer. Use the team filter to view only issues assigned to specific teams, making it easier to focus on issues relevant to your team.

{{< img src="error_tracking/ownership-sidebar.png" alt="Team ownership information on sidebar" style="width:90%;" >}}

> ## Benefits

Author: fixed
